[Doc][KubeRay] Doc for Helm chart RBAC (#40360)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/helm-chart-rbac.md

# Helm Chart RBAC

KubeRay utilizes [Kubernetes Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/) to grant permissions for monitoring and managing resources.
This document describes how to configure the KubeRay Helm chart to create RBAC resources for 3 different use cases.

* [Case 1: Watch all namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster](case1-watch-all-namespaces)
* [Case 2: Watch the namespace where the operator is deployed](case2-watch-1-namespace)
* [Case 3: Watch multiple namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster](case3-watch-multiple-namespaces)

## Parameters

You can configure the KubeRay Helm chart to create RBAC resources for different use cases by modifying the following parameters in the [values.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/helm-chart/kuberay-operator/values.yaml).
Then, you can install the KubeRay Helm chart with the modified **values.yaml**.

```shell
# Step 1: Clone the KubeRay repository
# Step 2: Modify the helm-chart/kuberay-operator/values.yaml
# Step 3: Install the KubeRay Helm chart (path: helm-chart/kuberay-operator)
helm install kuberay-operator .
```

* **`rbacEnable`**

>   * It determines whether to create RBAC resources. If set to false, the Helm chart doesn't create any RBAC resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If true, the Helm chart creates RBAC resources. If false, it doesn't create any RBAC resources. Default: true.
```

>   * By default, it's set to `true` and creates RBAC resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* **`singleNamespaceInstall`**

>   * It determines whether to create namespace-scoped or cluster-scoped RBAC resources. If set to true, the Helm chart creates Role and RoleBinding. Otherwise, it creates ClusterRole and ClusterRoleBinding instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * If true, the Helm chart creates  namespace-scoped RBAC resources, that is, Role and RoleBinding. If false, it creates  cluster-scoped RBAC resources, that is, ClusterRole and ClusterRoleBinding instead. Default: false.
```

>   * By default, it's set to `false` and creates cluster-scoped RBAC resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* **`watchNamespace`**

>   * The KubeRay operator's informer watches the custom resources in the namespaces listed in the `watchNamespace` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * A list of namespaces in which the KubeRay operator's informer watches the custom resources.
```

* **`crNamespacedRbacEnable`**

>   * In most cases, it should be `true`, unless you are using a Kubernetes cluster managed by GitOps tools such as ArgoCD. For additional details, refer to [ray-project/kuberay#1162](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1162).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Set to `true` in most cases. Set to `false` in the uncommon case of using a Kubernetes cluster managed by GitOps tools such as ArgoCD. For additional details, refer to [ray-project/kuberay#1162](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1162). Default: true.
```

>   * By default, it's set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The [values.yaml](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/helm-chart/kuberay-operator/values.yaml) file contains detailed descriptions of the parameters.

> In addition, these pull requests, [ray-project/kuberay#1106](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1106), [ray-project/kuberay#1162](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1162), and [ray-project/kuberay#1190](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1190), may also be helpful to understand these parameters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See these pull requests for more context on parameters: 
* [ray-project/kuberay#1106](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1106)
* [ray-project/kuberay#1162](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1162)
* [ray-project/kuberay#1190](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/pull/1190)
```

(case1-watch-all-namespaces)=
## Case 1: Watch all namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster

![Watch all namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster](../images/rbac-clusterrole.svg)

> This is KubeRay's default setting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This is the KubeRay's default setting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is KubeRay's default setting.
```

Reviewer 2: We can fix this in a followup if there's a time constraint for this PR, since CI takes a while to run.

Reviewer 3: > there's a time constraint for this PR

There is no time constraint for this PR. I will commit your suggestion to this branch.

> The informer of the KubeRay operator watches all namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the informer of the KubeRay operator watches all namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster.
```

The operator has cluster-scoped access to create and manage resources, using ClusterRole and ClusterRoleBinding.

```shell
# Create a Kubernetes cluster using Kind.
kind create cluster --image=kindest/node:v1.23.0

> # Create namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create namespaces.
```

kubectl create ns n1
kubectl create ns n2

> # Install a KubeRay operator (use default values.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install a KubeRay operator. Use the default `values.yaml` file.
```

# (path: helm-chart/kuberay-operator)
helm install kuberay-operator .

> # Check ClusterRole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check ClusterRole.
```

kubectl get clusterrole | grep kuberay
# kuberay-operator                  2023-10-15T04:54:28Z

> # Check Role 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check Role.
```

kubectl get role
#NAME                               CREATED AT
#kuberay-operator-leader-election   2023-10-15T04:54:28Z

> # Install RayCluster in `default`, `n1`, `n2` namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install RayCluster in the `default`, `n1`, and `n2` namespaces.
```

helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0
helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0 -n n1
helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0 -n n2

> # RayCluster in these 3 namespaces should be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# You should create a RayCluster in these 3 namespaces.
```

kubectl get raycluster -A
# NAMESPACE   NAME                 DESIRED WORKERS   AVAILABLE WORKERS   STATUS   AGE
# default     raycluster-kuberay   1                 1                   ready    73s
# n1          raycluster-kuberay   1                 1                   ready    56s
# n2          raycluster-kuberay   1                 1                   ready    52s
```

(case2-watch-1-namespace)=

> ## Case 2: Watch the namespace where the operator is deployed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Case 2: Watch the namespace where you deployed the operator
```

> ![Watch the namespace where the operator is deployed](../images/rbac-role-one-namespace.svg)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Watch the namespace where you deployed the operator](../images/rbac-role-one-namespace.svg)
```

> The informer of the KubeRay operator watches the namespace where the operator is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The informer of the KubeRay operator watches the namespace where you deployed the operator.
```

The operator has Role and RoleBinding in the same namespace.

* Modify the `singleNamespaceInstall` parameter in the `values.yaml` file to `true`.
  ```shell
  singleNamespaceInstall: true
  ```

```shell
# Create a Kubernetes cluster using Kind.
kind create cluster --image=kindest/node:v1.23.0

> # Create namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create namespaces.
```

kubectl create ns n1
kubectl create ns n2

> # Install a KubeRay operator 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install a KubeRay operator.
```

> # set `singleNamespaceInstall` to true in values.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Set `singleNamespaceInstall` to true in the `values.yaml` file.
```

# (path: helm-chart/kuberay-operator)
helm install kuberay-operator .

> # Check ClusterRole

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check ClusterRole.
```

kubectl get clusterrole | grep kuberay
# (nothing found)

# Check Role
kubectl get role --all-namespaces | grep kuberay
#default       kuberay-operator                                 2023-10-15T05:18:03Z
#default       kuberay-operator-leader-election                 2023-10-15T05:18:03Z

# Install RayCluster in `default`, `n1`, `n2`
helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0
helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0 -n n1
helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0 -n n2

> # Only RayCluster in `default` will be created.

Reviewer: If KubeRay is not doing the creation, please correct the sentence. I just guessed.

kubectl get raycluster -A
# NAMESPACE   NAME                 DESIRED WORKERS   AVAILABLE WORKERS   STATUS   AGE
# default     raycluster-kuberay   1                 1                   ready    54s
# n1          raycluster-kuberay                                                  50s
# n2          raycluster-kuberay                                                  44s
```

(case3-watch-multiple-namespaces)=
## Case 3: Watch multiple namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster

![Watch multiple namespaces in the Kubernetes cluster](../images/rbac-role-multi-namespaces.svg)

In Case 2, users with only namespaced access deploy a separate KubeRay operator for each namespace.

> This approach can heighten maintenance overhead, especially when upgrading versions for each deployed instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This approach can increase maintenance overhead, especially when upgrading versions for each deployed instance.
```

> Meanwhile, Case 3 creates Role and RoleBinding for multiple namespaces, allowing a single KubeRay operator to monitor several namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Case 3 creates Role and RoleBinding for multiple namespaces, allowing a single KubeRay operator to monitor several namespaces.
```

> * Modify the `singleNamespaceInstall` and `watchNamespace` parameters in the `values.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Modify the `singleNamespaceInstall` and `watchNamespace` parameters in the `values.yaml` file.
```

  ```shell
  # Set in value.yaml
  singleNamespaceInstall: true

>   # Set the namespaces list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # Set the namespaces list.
```

  watchNamespace:
    - n1
    - n2
  ```

```shell
# Create a Kubernetes cluster using Kind.
kind create cluster --image=kindest/node:v1.23.0

> # Create namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create namespaces.
```

kubectl create ns n1
kubectl create ns n2

> # Install a KubeRay operator 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install a KubeRay operator.
```

# set `singleNamespaceInstall` and `watchNamespace` in values.yaml
# (path: helm-chart/kuberay-operator)
helm install kuberay-operator .

# Check ClusterRole
kubectl get clusterrole | grep kuberay
# (nothing found)

> # Check Role

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Check Role.
```

kubectl get role --all-namespaces | grep kuberay
#default       kuberay-operator-leader-election                 2023-10-15T05:34:27Z
#n1            kuberay-operator                                 2023-10-15T05:34:27Z
#n2            kuberay-operator                                 2023-10-15T05:34:27Z

> # Install RayCluster in `default`, `n1`, `n2`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Install RayCluster in the `default`, `n1`, and `n2` namespaces.
```

helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0
helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0 -n n1
helm install raycluster kuberay/ray-cluster --version 1.0.0-rc.0 -n n2

> # Only RayCluster in n1 and n2 will be created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# KubeRay creates a RayCluster only in n1 and n2.
```
